Sweetheart,
Please, please don’t be so depressed — We’ll be married soon, and then these lonesome nights will be over forever — and until we are, 
I am loving, loving every tiny minute of the day and night — Maybe you won’t understand this, but sometimes when I miss you most, it’s 
hardest to write — and you always know when I make myself — Just the ache of it all — and I can’t tell you. If we were together, you’d 
feel how strong it is — you’re so sweet when you’re melancholy. I love your sad tenderness — when I’ve hurt you — That’s one of the reasons 
I could never be sorry for our quarrels — and they bothered you so — Those dear, dear little fusses, when I always tried so hard to make 
you kiss and forget —
Scott — there’s nothing in all the world I want but you — and your precious love — All the material things are nothing. I’d just hate 
to live a sordid, colorless existence — because you’d soon love me less — and less — and I’d do anything — anything — to keep your heart 
for my own — I don’t want to live — I want to love first, and live incidentally — Why don’t you feel that I’m waiting — I’ll come to you, 
Lover, when you’re ready — Don’t don’t ever think of the things you can’t give me — You’ve trusted me with the dearest heart of all — and 
it’s so damn much more than anybody else in all the world has ever had —
How can you think deliberately of life without me — If you should die — O Darling — darling Scott — It’d be like going blind. I know 
I would, too, — I’d have no purpose in life — just a pretty — decoration. Don’t you think I was made for you? I feel like you had me 
ordered — and I was delivered to you — to be worn — I want you to wear me, like a watch — charm or a button hole boquet — to the world. 
And then, when we’re alone, I want to help — to know that you can’t do anything without me.
I’m glad you wrote Mamma. It was such a nice sincere letter — and mine to St. Paul was very evasive and rambling. I’ve never, in all my 
life, been able to say anything to people older than me — Somehow I just instinctively avoid personal things with them — 
even my family. Kids are so much nicer.