Fräulein Felice!
I am now going to ask you a favor which sounds quite crazy, and which I should regard as such, were I the one to receive the letter. 
It is also the very greatest test that even the kindest person could be put to. Well, this is it:
Write to me only once a week, so that your letter arrives on Sunday — for I cannot endure your daily letters, I am incapable of 
enduring them. For instance, I answer one of your letters, then lie in bed in apparent calm, but my heart beats through my entire 
body and is conscious only of you. I belong to you; there is really no other way of expressing it, and that is not strong enough. 
But for this very reason I don’t want to know what you are wearing; it confuses me so much that I cannot deal with life; and that’s why 
I don’t want to know that you are fond of me. If I did, how could I, fool that I am, go on sitting in my office, or here at home, instead 
of leaping onto a train with my eyes shut and opening them only when I am with you? Oh, there is a sad, sad reason for not doing so. 
To make it short: My health is only just good enough for myself alone, not good enough for marriage, let alone fatherhood. Yet when I 
read your letter, I feel I could overlook even what cannot possibly be overlooked.
If only I had your answer now! And how horribly I torment you, and how I compel you, in the stillness of your room, to read this letter, 
as nasty a letter as has ever lain on your desk! Honestly, it strikes me sometimes that I prey like a spectre on your felicitous name! 
If only I had mailed Saturday’s letter, in which I implored you never to write to me again, and in which I gave a similar promise. 
Oh God, what prevented me from sending that letter? All would be well. But is a peaceful solution possible now? Would it help if we 
wrote to each other only once a week? No, if my suffering could be cured by such means it would not be serious. And already I foresee 
that I shan’t be able to endure even the Sunday letters. And so, to compensate for Saturday’s lost opportunity, I ask you with what 
nergy remains to me at the end of this letter: If we value our lives, let us abandon it all.
Did I think of signing myself Dein? No, nothing could be more false. No, I am forever fettered to myself, that’s what I am, and that’s 
what I must try to live with.