My darling,
Do not imagine, because you find these lines in your journal that I have been trespassing.  You know I have not – and where else shall 
I leave a love letter?  For I long to write you a love-letter tonight.
You are all about me – I seem to breathe you, hear you, feel you in me and of me.
What am I doing here?  You are away.  I have seen you in the train, at the station, driving up, sitting in the lamplight, talking, 
greeting people, washing your hands…  And I am here – in your tent – sitting at your table.
There are some wall-flower petals on the table and a dead match, a blue pencil and a Magdeburgische Zeitung.  I am just as much at 
home as they.
When dusk came, flowing up the silent garden, lapping against the blind windows, my first and last terror started up.  I was making 
some coffee in the kitchen.  It was so violent, so dreadful I put down the coffee pot – and simply ran away – ran ran out of the studio 
and up the street with my bag under one arm and a block of writing paper and a pen under the other.  I felt that if I could get here 
and find Mrs. F I should be *safe*.
I found her and I lighted your gas, wound up your clock, drew your curtains and embraced your black overcoat before I sat down, 
frightened no longer.  Do not be angry with me, Bogey.  Ca a ete plus fort que moi ….  That is why I am here.
When you came to tea this afternoon you took a brioche, broke it in half and padded the inside doughy bit with two fingers.  You 
always do that with a bun or roll or a piece of bread.  It is your way – your head a little on one side the while.
When you opened your suitcase, I saw your old Feltie and a French book and a com all higgledy-piggedly.  ‘Tig, Ive only got 3 
handkerchiefs.’ Why should that memory be so sweet to me?…
Last night, there was a moment before you got into bed.  You stood, quite naked, bending forward a little, talking.  It was only for 
an instant.  I saw you – I loved you so, loved your body with such tenderness.  Ah, my dear!
And I am not thinking of *passion*.  No, of that other thing that makes me feel that every inch of you is so precious to me – your 
soft shoulders – your creamy warm skin, your ears cold like shells are cold – your long legs and your feet that I love to clasp with my 
feet – the feeling of your belly – and your thin young back.  Just below that bone that sticks out at the back of your neck you have a 
little mole.
It is partly because we are young that I feel this tenderness.  I love your mouth.  I could not bear that it should be touched even by 
a cold wind if I were the Lord.
We two, you know, have everything before us, and we shall do very great things.  I have perfect faith in us, and so perfect is my love 
for you that I am, as it were, still, silent to my very soul.
I want nobody but you for my lover and my friend and to nobody buy you shall I be faithful.
I am yours forever.
Tig.